Here’s a list of 50 beginner-friendly loop questions divided into categories so you can practice step by step.

🔹 Basic Loop Practice
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Q Print numbers from 1 to 10 using a for loop.
Answer
for i in range(1, 11):
    print(i)

Q Print numbers from 10 to 1 using a while loop.
Answer

Print the first 10 odd numbers.

Print the first 10 even numbers.

Print the multiplication table of 5.

Print the multiplication table of any number entered by the user.

Print the squares of numbers from 1 to 10.

Print the cubes of numbers from 1 to 10.

Print all numbers divisible by 3 between 1 and 50.

Print all numbers divisible by both 3 and 5 between 1 and 100.

🔹 Sum & Product Using Loops
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Find the sum of numbers from 1 to 100.

Find the sum of even numbers from 1 to 100.

Find the sum of odd numbers from 1 to 100.

Find the product of numbers from 1 to 10.

Calculate the sum of digits of a number.

Calculate the product of digits of a number.

Find the factorial of a number using a loop.

Find the sum of the squares of numbers from 1 to n.

Find the sum of cubes of numbers from 1 to n.

Count the number of digits in a number using a loop.

🔹 Pattern Printing
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Print a square of * of size 5x5.

Print a right-angled triangle of *.

Print an inverted right-angled triangle of *.

Print a pyramid of *.

Print numbers in a right-angled triangle (1, 12, 123…).

Print a triangle of odd numbers.

Print a triangle of even numbers.

Print a triangle of alphabets (A, AB, ABC…).

Print a diamond pattern using *.

Print a hollow square pattern using *.

🔹 Working with Lists
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Print all elements of a list using a for loop.

Find the sum of elements in a list.

Find the maximum element in a list using a loop.

Find the minimum element in a list using a loop.

Count how many even numbers are in a list.

Count how many odd numbers are in a list.

Reverse a list using a loop.

Print elements of a list in reverse order.

Find duplicates in a list.

Remove duplicates from a list using a loop.

🔹 Logical Problems
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Reverse a number using a loop.

Check if a number is prime using a loop.

Print all prime numbers between 1 and 50.

Check if a number is a palindrome (same forward & backward).

Check if a number is an Armstrong number.

Print Fibonacci series up to n terms.

Find the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers using a loop.

Find the least common multiple (LCM) of two numbers using a loop.

Count vowels and consonants in a string.

Print the factorial of first 10 natural numbers using a loop.
